# paper

## 1. INTRODUCTION

## 2. VNE PROBLEM FORMULATION

### A. VNE Models

- Substrate network: We model the substrate network as an undirected graph, denoted as $G^s = (N_s, L_s,)$, where $N_s$ is the set of substrate nodes and $L_s$ is the set of substrate links.

We denote the available computing resource(e.g. CPU) of node $n_s \in N_s$, and available bandwidth of link $l_s \in L_s$, as $c_n$ and $b_l$, respectively.

$P_l$ is the set of (acyclic paths) in $G_s$.

An example of a substrate network is illustrated if (Fig.1 a), where the numbers around the nodes and links are their available resources.

- Virtual network: We use notation $G_v$ to denote a virtual network(VN) request, whose topology can also be modeled as an undirected graph, where $N_v$ is the set of virtual nodes and $L_v$ is the set of virtual links.

Each virtual node $n_v \in N_v$ is associated with a computing resource demand of $c_v$ and each virtual link $l_v \in L_v$ has a bandwidth demand of $b_l$.

(Fig. 1 b) illustrates a VN request.

Each VN request is also associated with two tie-domain parameters, i.e., $a$ for the arrival time and $b$ for its lifetime.

The notations are summarized in `Table 1`

### B. VNE Process (映射过程以及约束条件 )

### C. VNE Revenue Model (评价指标)

## 3. VNE-GNT algorithm

In this section, we propose a novel VNE algorithm.

The algorithm implements (a PageRank-like node-ranking) approach based on the (global resource information) and then performs node mapping according to the ranks of the nodes. After node mapping, the shortest-path-based link mapping follows.

We refer this algorithm as GNT-driven VNE (VNE-GNT) algorithm, for it aims to maximize the InP's revenue by accepting as many as possible VN requests under the resource limitation of its substrate network.

### A. Node Ranking

For the node mapping, we adopt a novel ranking approach, similar to the PageRank algorithm.

### B. Node Mapping

In the VNE-GNT algorithm, the node mapping works as follows in a greedy way.

First, we backup the status of the substrate network, and then sorts the nodes of both the substrate network and the VN request in descending order according to the node-rank vectors calculated by `algorithm node rank`.

As the value of the node rank indicates the embedding capacity of the corresponding node.

Thus, the virtual node with the highest node rank among the remaining ones will always embed onto the substrate node that also has the highest node rank among the remaining substrate ones, whose available computing resource meets the demand.

if the computing resource demand cannot be satisfied by any of the remaining substrate nodes, the VN request is marked as `blocked`, and if all virtual nodes ars embedded successfully, the computing resource of the corresponding substrate bodes would be updated.

The details of the greedy node mapping algorithm are shown in `algorithm 2`.

The complexity of this algorithm is $O(|N_s||N_v|)$

### C. Shortest-Path-based Link Mapping

For link mapping, Similar to previous works `[11, 12]`, we apply the shortest-path routing algorithm, which aims to minimize the total substrate bandwidth allocated to each virtual link.

Specifically, we embed the virtual links of the VN request one by one, and for each virtual link, we adopt the Dijkstra's algorithm to find the shortest path between the two corresponding nodes in the substrate network.

What's more, to improve the efficiency of the algorithm, we propose (), which pre-cuts all substrate links in the substrate network that do not have enough bandwidth for the corresponding virtual link.

if any virtual link of the VN request mapping fails, we restore the status of the substrate network and mark the VN request as `blocked`.

`algorithm 3` describes the details of the shortest-path-based link mapping algorithm.

The complexity of this algorithm is $O(|E_v||E_s|\log {|E_s|})$

### D. Time Complexity

The time Complexity of the proposed VNE-GNT algorithm can be calculated by adding up the complexities of its three steps, i.e. node ranking, node mapping and link mapping.

Hence, we determine that its time complexity is $O(\max {1, 2})$

## 4. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

### A. Simulation Setup

To evaluate the proposed VNE-GNT algorithm, we perform extensive simulations with a substrate topology that is randomly generated by the GT_ITM tool `reference`.

The topologies of the VN requests are also randomly generated by the GT_ITM tool.

For each VN request, the computing resource demand and the bandwidth demand are uniformly distributed within the ranges shown in `Table 1`

`Table 2` shows the simulation parameters.

### B. Performance Comparisons

In this subsection, we compare the performance of our proposed VNE-GNT algorithm with three existing VNE algorithms, i.e. the VNE-DCC `reference`, the RW-BFS `reference` and the VNE-SP algorithm `reference`.

For all simulations, we set: $\alpha = \beta = 1, \zeta = 0.00001$ and $d = 0.85$.
